♪ [music] ♪
All of the data for our application is
going to be stored in MongoDB.
Which is a type of database, fairly
popular in the node community.
Now, in order to get a database up
and running, we have two options:
First, we can use a database as a service,
as a DBaaS, or we can use MongoDB and
host it ourselves. So, what I'm
going to show you to do first is,
we're going to use a hosted service.
Then I will show you how you can run it
yourself. So, I'm a big fan, and this is
what I use for all of my own database
hosting. It's called mLab, mlab.com. And
they provide the database hosting for you,
and they have a really good free plan,
which is when you're just working on
development, that's exactly what you need.
So go to mlab.com, and create an account,
and there's also, I should just tell you,
that MongoDB themselves has a new
service called Atlas, which will allow
you to build a free database as well.
You don't need to put a credit card in
or anything like that. It's brand new,
it's experiencing some outage. It's been a
little slow for me, so I'm not going to be
showing you how to do that, but I bet in
the next couple of months it's going to
show up and look pretty good. So we're
going to go over to MongoDB deployments.
We're going to create a new one. You can
pick out where you'd like to store it.
I'm going to pick AWS, East one, that's
kind of where I host a lot of my
stuff. You've got to click on single
node and scroll all the way down to
where it says Sandbox Shared 0.5. Then you
need to pick the version of MongoDB that
you're going to be running on. 3.2.x is
just fine as long as you're on at least
that. We're going to be using
some stuff that uses that today.
And then the database name, we're
going to call that dang_thats_delicious.
That will then create our MongoDB
deployment and it's going to
take just a second to set up. Once
that's set up, you can click on through to
it, and we need to figure out what our
connection string is. So, what I want you
to do is open up your files here,
and you'll see that we have this
variables.m.sample. I want to open
that up and rename it variables.env.
Take the .sample off of that, and this
database, this is where we need
to specify the connection to
our MongoDB. So we have
mongodb://user:password@host.com/port
/database, and that's actually what they
provide with us here. So go ahead and copy
that out and put that connection string in
right there. Now, that's not it so far. We
also need to put in the username and the
password for our database. So,
it's really important that you create it.
If you host your own MongoDB, some
of them will not give you by default.
It will not have a username and password
which is a huge security flaw.
So you want to make sure that you always
create a username and a password for it.
MongoDB on mLab by default is going to
have it. So we're going to go over to
users. We're going to add a database
user. We're going to call it dang.
I'm going to make the password dang, and
I'm going to convert it as dang.
Obviously make yours more secure than
this, but that's what I'm working with
right now. I'm going to create and we're
going to go back to our thing here,
I'm going to take out, including the
angle brackets here. The username is
going to be dang, a colon and then the
password is going to be dang. And that's
going to allow us connect to it. The way
that we can tell if this has worked is
we're going to try to connect to our
database with what's called a MongoDB
GUI. And what a GUIwill allow us to
do is to log in to the database and
visualize all the data that we have.
Often, a GUI will allow you to update,
create new data, edit existing data.
If you've ever used something
like PHPMyAdmin for mysql database. This
is sort of similar. There's all kinds of
GUIs out there, but we're going to be
using one called MongoDB Compass.
And if you do a quick Google search for a
MongoDB Compass, you go ahead and
download, I suggest you go on the latest
beta. What ever version is current at the
time of you watching this, and then
select whichever platform you're on,
download it, install it to your computer.
Now, I want you to go ahead and copy this
whole query string that we have here
MongoDB, blah, blah, blah, blah.
Go over to your MongoDB Compass
beta, open it up. It's going to
automatically detect that I had copied it.
I'm going to say Yes and what that will do
is it's going to automatically populate
the hostname, the port, the way that we're
connecting, in this case, we're using
a username and a password,
the database that we wish to connect to,
and that's all that we got.
So go ahead and click on Connect, and if
that has worked, then you will see that we
have connected to our dang-thats-delicious
database, and that's all we're going to
see for now. But we're going to
come back to this GUI when we
have created different data in here, where
we're going to be able to visualize what
we have. So that's the very easiest
way to get set up with MongoDB.
If you just want to keep going with this
tutorial, stop right here and jump to the
next video. Now, if you're going to be
doing this tutorial on an airplane,
or a train, or somewhere that just does
not have an internet connection,
what we're going to need to do is install
MongoDB on your actual computer.
So I'm on a Mac here and the
easiest way to install on a Mac is first
you need something called Homebrew. If
you don't have that go take a look at
that. There's tons of tutorials out there,
and you simply just type brew update to go
and grab the latest definitions. If you're
already up to date it will say up to date,
and then you do brew install MongoDB, and
what that will do is it will go off an
install all of the things that you
need. You can tell if you have it
installed properly when
you type mongo - - version,
and when you hit that you're going to see,
you should be on at least version 3.4 or I
guess we are on 3.2 as well. Those
versions are just fine for us.
Now how do we actually start up
MongoDB when we are connected?
You can get it started by typing mongod,
but you probably will need to put a sudo
in front of it if you're on an OS X. When
you hit enter it might ask you for your
password, but this will have it up and
running. There's other commands
you can use to sort of open it
and run it in a background task,
but I prefer to just to leave it open in a
tab running, open up a fresh tab and have
MongoDB working. Now, can we test that
that works? We'll go back to our MongoDB
Compass here. I don't want to connect to
the string that's in my copy paste,
but here, we want to connect to the local
host. By default, the port is 27017.
There's no authentication locally, so
you can leave it on all of these here.
Go ahead and click connect and
you're going to see, In this case, it's
going to show me all the different
databases that I have locally.
You see that I have dang_thats_delicious
just from one that I've done before.
We're going to go ahead and create our own
database here, but you'll know your local
host is connected and then we'll be
able to hear... This is kind of a look at
how it looks. We're going to have
information about the authors. We're
going to have descriptions. We're going to
have geolocation data that gets stored.
You can see all around the city,
these dots are popping up. Names,
images, etc, and I can look at the
documents, then you'll notice that this
looks just exactly like a javascript
object. Which is exactly how we're
going to be working with MongoDB. If
you are on Windows, let me go over to
mongodb.com, and click on download
in the top right-hand corner.
Select the latest version for your
current version of Windows,
and download that. It's going
to ask you for some information,
but it's not necessary to put it in,
because you'll see it's already
downloading. Once that download
has finished, open it up,
go through next, next, next. It's just
going to ask you which version you'd like
to install, and click on complete. Once
it's installed, go to C:, Program Files,
MongoDB, Server, the current version and
then bin. In there you're going to see all
the applications that we need, and the
one we're looking for is mongod,
M-O-N-G-O-D, and that's going to
run the database locally on our
computer. Now, to run it, open up your
command and move into that folder,
So, here I'm going to go into Program
Files, into MongoDB, then into the Server
folder, current version, and then bin.
And to run it, we're going to type simply
M-O-N-G-O-D. Now, when you get this,
you might get an error that says data
directory, data db not found, terminating,
and that's because MongoDB needs a folder
on your C:/Data and a folder called db, in
order to actually store the data that's
going to be saved to our db. So create
that folder, try run the mongod command
again, and you are up and running. You can
go to your MongoDB Compass, you should
be able to connect with
the default settings.
♪ [music] ♪